weekly highlights 2023-02-16 (#1705)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/changes/highlights/2023-02-16.md

---
date: 2023-02-16T11:00:00
title: Highlights for the week ending February 16, 2023
changes_categories:
  - Highlights
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-product
---

## User Interfaces

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [coredns-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/coredns-app) [v1.14.2](https://github.com/giantswarm/coredns-app/releases/tag/v1.14.2) changes the Pod Disruption Budget from `maxUnavailable: 1` to `maxUnavailable: 25%` for better scaling. Drop static `replicas`, managed by HPA from the Deployment and add changes to the Config Map by adding 5 seconds to the Health Check
- [k8s-dns-node-cache-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app) [v2.0.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app/releases/tag/v2.0.0) introduces support for Cilium CNI in EBPf mode and should be **only** used with AWS v19 release
- [kong-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app) [v3.0.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app/releases/tag/v3.0.0) This release upgrades kong to release [3.1.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#311) which contains breaking changes. Please consider reading the upstream [Breaking changes](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#breaking-changes) documentation before upgrading. Users of the kong enterprise should read the [Kong Gateway changelogs of releases 3.0.0.0 onwards](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/changelog/#3000) up to 3.1.1.3. Align with upstream chart version, Update kong/kong to [3.1.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#311). Please read [Breaking changes](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#breaking-changes) notes. Update kong ingress controller to [2.8.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/2.8.1/CHANGELOG.md#281) and Update custom resource definitions to those used by kong ingress controller [2.8.1]. **Changes:** Increase default requests/limits to 1 cpu and 2G memory and Remove startupProbe from kong ingress controller. [More information](https://github.com/Kong/charts/pull/527#issuecomment-1014782921). **Breaking Changes:** The `minReadySeconds` value previous found at `deployment.kong.minReadySeconds` is now configured at path `deployment.minReadySeconds`
- [kong-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app) [v3.0.1](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app/releases/tag/v3.0.1) **Caution: If you are upgrading from chart version lower than 3.0.0, it is neccessary to perform an intermediate upgrade to chart version 3.0.0 as this version contains a required migration process for enabling the use of seccompProfiles** Change default PodDisruptionBudget to move from maxUnavailable: 1 to maxUnavailable: 25% for better scaling. Adds fix that HorizontalPodAutoscaler's API version is detected properly and fixes template issue preventing custom dblessconfig volume from being mounted. 
- [nginx-ingress-controller-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app) [v2.24.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app/releases/tag/v2.24.0) Aligns to upstream and enables the configuration of a default backend. Adds a fix to stop targeting default backend pods with the controller service and  changes `PodDisruptionBudget` to move from `maxUnavailable: 1` to `maxUnavailable: 25%` for better scaling
- [linkerd-bundle](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle) [v0.1.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle/releases/tag/v0.1.0) With this release we have bundled all relevant linkerd components to one installation. This bundle contains [linkerd-multicluster-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-app), [linkerd-multicluster-link-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-link-app), [linkerd-viz-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-viz-app), [linkerd-control-plane-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-control-plane-app) and [linkerd2-cni-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd2-cni-app). As well as examples, templates and helpers.
```

- [kong-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app) [v3.0.1](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app/releases/tag/v3.0.1) **Caution:** If you are upgrading from chart version lower than 3.0.0, it is neccessary to perform an intermediate upgrade to chart version 3.0.0 as this version contains a required migration process for enabling the use of seccompProfiles Change default PodDisruptionBudget to move from maxUnavailable: 1 to maxUnavailable: 25% for better scaling. Adds fix that HorizontalPodAutoscaler's API version is detected properly and fixes template issue preventing custom dblessconfig volume from being mounted. 
- [nginx-ingress-controller-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app) [v2.24.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app/releases/tag/v2.24.0) Aligns to upstream and enables the configuration of a default backend. Adds a fix to stop targeting default backend pods with the controller service and  changes `PodDisruptionBudget` to move from `maxUnavailable: 1` to `maxUnavailable: 25%` for better scaling

> - [linkerd-bundle](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle) [v0.1.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle/releases/tag/v0.1.0) With this release we have bundled all relevant linkerd components to one installation. This bundle contains [linkerd-multicluster-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-app), [linkerd-multicluster-link-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-link-app), [linkerd-viz-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-viz-app), [linkerd-control-plane-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-control-plane-app) and [linkerd2-cni-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd2-cni-app). As well as examples, templates and helpers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[linkerd-bundle](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle) [v0.1.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle/releases/tag/v0.1.0) release `0.1.0` offers a bundle with all relevant Linkerd components tied together to serve as a one-click installation method. This bundle contains [linkerd-multicluster-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-app), [linkerd-multicluster-link-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-link-app), [linkerd-viz-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-viz-app), [linkerd-control-plane-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-control-plane-app) and [linkerd2-cni-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd2-cni-app). As well as examples, templates and helpers.
```

---
date: 2023-02-16T11:00:00
title: Highlights for the week ending February 16, 2023
changes_categories:
  - Highlights
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-product
---

## Apps

- [coredns-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/coredns-app) [v1.14.2](https://github.com/giantswarm/coredns-app/releases/tag/v1.14.2) changes the PodDisruptionBudget from `maxUnavailable: 1` to `maxUnavailable: 25%` for better scaling. Drop static `replicas`, managed by HPA from the Deployment and add changes to the Config Map by adding 5 seconds to the Health Check.

> - [k8s-dns-node-cache-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app) [v2.0.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app/releases/tag/v2.0.0) introduces support for Cilium CNI in EBPf mode and should be **only** used with AWS v19 release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [k8s-dns-node-cache-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app) [v2.0.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app/releases/tag/v2.0.0) has been released. It introduces a new major version in order to support Cilium CNI in EBPf mode. The new major version should be **only** used from AWS v19 release and so on.
```

## User Interfaces

> - [coredns-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/coredns-app) [v1.14.2](https://github.com/giantswarm/coredns-app/releases/tag/v1.14.2) changes the Pod Disruption Budget from `maxUnavailable: 1` to `maxUnavailable: 25%` for better scaling. Drop static `replicas`, managed by HPA from the Deployment and add changes to the Config Map by adding 5 seconds to the Health Check

Reviewer: @T-Kukawka are you fine with the changes made by @pipo02mix as I just copied your notes from two weeks ago?

> - [k8s-dns-node-cache-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app) [v2.0.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app/releases/tag/v2.0.0) introduces support for Cilium CNI in EBPf mode and should be **only** used with AWS v19 release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [k8s-dns-node-cache-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app) [v2.0.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8s-dns-node-cache-app/releases/tag/v2.0.0) has been released. It introduces a new major version in order to support Cilium CNI in EBPf mode. The new major version should be **only** used from AWS v19 release and so on.
```

Author: @pipo02mix I try to commit your suggestion but it does not work :(

Reviewer 2: done. I had to copy and paste as suggestion again 🤷

Reviewer: @T-Kukawka are you fine with the changes made by @pipo02mix as I just copied your notes from two weeks ago?

> - [kong-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app) [v3.0.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app/releases/tag/v3.0.0) This release upgrades kong to release [3.1.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#311) which contains breaking changes. Please consider reading the upstream [Breaking changes](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#breaking-changes) documentation before upgrading. Users of the kong enterprise should read the [Kong Gateway changelogs of releases 3.0.0.0 onwards](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/changelog/#3000) up to 3.1.1.3. Align with upstream chart version, Update kong/kong to [3.1.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#311). Please read [Breaking changes](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#breaking-changes) notes. Update kong ingress controller to [2.8.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/2.8.1/CHANGELOG.md#281) and Update custom resource definitions to those used by kong ingress controller [2.8.1]. **Changes:** Increase default requests/limits to 1 cpu and 2G memory and Remove startupProbe from kong ingress controller. [More information](https://github.com/Kong/charts/pull/527#issuecomment-1014782921). **Breaking Changes:** The `minReadySeconds` value previous found at `deployment.kong.minReadySeconds` is now configured at path `deployment.minReadySeconds`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [kong-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app) [v3.0.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app/releases/tag/v3.0.0) This release upgrades Kong to release [3.1.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#311) which contains breaking changes. Please consider reading the upstream [Breaking changes](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#breaking-changes) documentation before upgrading. Users of the Kong enterprise should read the [Kong Gateway changelogs of releases 3.0.0.0 onwards](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/changelog/#3000) up to 3.1.1.3. Align with the upstream chart version, Update kong/kong to [3.1.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#311). Please read [Breaking changes](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#breaking-changes) notes. Update the Kong ingress controller to [2.8.1](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/2.8.1/CHANGELOG.md#281) and Update custom resource definitions to those used by the Kong ingress controller [2.8.1]. **Changes:** Increase default requests/limits to 1 CPU and 2G memory and removes `startupProbe` from the Kong ingress controller. [More information](https://github.com/Kong/charts/pull/527#issuecomment-1014782921). **Breaking Changes:** The `minReadySeconds` value previously found at `deployment.kong.minReadySeconds` is now configured at path `deployment.minReadySeconds`
```

Reviewer 2: I have suggest some changes but it still takes a lot of effort for me to get the message. I see `https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/3.1.1/CHANGELOG.md#breaking-changes` repeated twice and it mentions upgrade to `3.1.1` and later `2.8.1`. Can we split or simplify it?

Author: @weatherhog what's your input based on Fer comment above?

Reviewer: @pipo02mix I think it makes sense to mention the breaking changes multiple times just to be sure that everyone is aware that there are breaking changes. The mentioned upgrade to `3.1.1` is regarding kong and the mentioned update to `2.8.1`is regarding kong-ingress-controller. Splitting it just would make it even more complex because the release is updating several kong components at once

> - [kong-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app) [v3.0.1](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app/releases/tag/v3.0.1) **Caution:** If you are upgrading from chart version lower than 3.0.0, it is neccessary to perform an intermediate upgrade to chart version 3.0.0 as this version contains a required migration process for enabling the use of seccompProfiles Change default PodDisruptionBudget to move from maxUnavailable: 1 to maxUnavailable: 25% for better scaling. Adds fix that HorizontalPodAutoscaler's API version is detected properly and fixes template issue preventing custom dblessconfig volume from being mounted. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [kong-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app) [v3.0.1](https://github.com/giantswarm/kong-app/releases/tag/v3.0.1) **Caution:** If you are upgrading from chart version lower than 3.0.0, it is necessary to perform an intermediate upgrade to chart version 3.0.0 as this version contains a required migration process for enabling the use of `seccompProfiles`. At the same time, it changes the default Pod Disruption Budget to move from `maxUnavailable: 1` to `maxUnavailable: 25%` for better scaling. Also, it includes a fix in Horizontal Pod Autoscaler's API version which detects and prevents the template issue with the custom `dblessconfigom being mounted. 
```

> - [nginx-ingress-controller-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app) [v2.24.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app/releases/tag/v2.24.0) Aligns to upstream and enables the configuration of a default backend. Adds a fix to stop targeting default backend pods with the controller service and  changes `PodDisruptionBudget` to move from `maxUnavailable: 1` to `maxUnavailable: 25%` for better scaling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [nginx-ingress-controller-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app) [v2.24.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app/releases/tag/v2.24.0) release aligns to latest upstream version and enables the configuration of a default backend. On the other hand, it adds a fix to stop targeting default backend pods with the controller service. Lastly, the release contains a change in the Pod Disruption Budget to move from `maxUnavailable: 1` to `maxUnavailable: 25%` for better scaling.
```

> - [linkerd-bundle](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle) [v0.1.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle/releases/tag/v0.1.0) With this release we have bundled all relevant linkerd components to one installation. This bundle contains [linkerd-multicluster-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-app), [linkerd-multicluster-link-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-link-app), [linkerd-viz-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-viz-app), [linkerd-control-plane-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-control-plane-app) and [linkerd2-cni-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd2-cni-app). As well as examples, templates and helpers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [linkerd-bundle](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle) [v0.1.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-bundle/releases/tag/v0.1.0) release `0.1.0` offers a bundle with all relevant Linkerd components tied together to serve as a one-click installation method. This bundle contains [linkerd-multicluster-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-app), [linkerd-multicluster-link-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-multicluster-link-app), [linkerd-viz-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-viz-app), [linkerd-control-plane-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd-control-plane-app) and [linkerd2-cni-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/linkerd2-cni-app). As well as examples, templates and helpers.
```
